---
title: 2022
weight: 100
toc: true
---

## Unit 1.29.0 Released

We are happy to announce Unit 1.29.0! This release enhances the configuration
experience when managing Unit and provides programmability within the
configuration.

- NGINX JavaScript (njs) is now built with official Unit packages, enabling
  JavaScript expressions within configuration values.
- First-time users benefit from a setup script that configures Unit with a
  helpful welcome page.
- A simple command-line curl(1) wrapper simplifies configuring a running
  instance in real time.

In addition, Unit's isolation capabilities have been extended so that each
application can run in a new or a pre-existing [Linux cgroup](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cgroups),
but this is only a sampler of even richer per-application observability. Read on for full details of these
enhancements, smaller features, and bug fixes.

### NGINX JavaScript Integration

NGINX JavaScript (njs) is a server-side JavaScript runtime, optimized for
ultra-fast initialization, with a virtual machine that lives and dies with each
request. Originally designed for extending NGINX, the njs architecture lends
itself to integration, and now it also extends Unit!

This release brings the initial integration of the NGINX JavaScript engine to
Unit. Future releases will extend these capabilities to enable more elaborate
uses. With Unit 1.29.0, JavaScript template literals may be used in
configuration strings to execute JavaScript expressions. A simple example is
to use the ternary operator to make a routing decision.

```console
# curl --unix-socket /var/run/control.unit.sock http://localhost/config/routes
```

```json
[
    {
        "action": {
            "pass": "`applications/${new Date().getHours() < 12 ? 'am' : 'pm'}`"
        }
    }
]
```

Here, requests are passed between different applications depending on the time
of day. Note that a template literal is enclosed in backticks (`\``),
and `${}` encloses the JavaScript expression. Template literals may be
used wherever Unit supports variables, and multiple expressions can appear in a
single template literal.

Also, this embedded JavaScript code can access various HTTP request properties:

- Scalars: `host`, `uri`, `remoteAddr`
- Objects: `args`, `cookies`, `headers`

Let's use these properties to redirect clients to the HTTPS login page if there
is no `session` cookie:

```console
# curl --unix-socket /var/run/control.unit.sock http://localhost/config/routes/0
```

```json
{
    "match": {
        "scheme": "http"
    },

    "action": {
        "return": 302,
        "location": "`https://${host}${cookies['session'] === undefined ? '/login' : uri}`"
    }
}
```

More complex logic can be implemented using the [immediately invoked function expressions (IIFE)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/IIFE) in
the template literal: an entire JavaScript function can be defined,
comprising multiple statements and local variables.

This defines a simple key-value log format that parses a JSON Web Token (JWT) to extract the sub claim:

```console
# curl --unix-socket /var/run/control.unit.sock http://localhost/config/access_log
```

```json
{
    "path": "/var/log/unit/access_kv.log",
    "format": "`timestamp=${new Date().toISOString()} ip=${remoteAddr} uri=${uri} sub=${(() => { var authz = headers['Authorization']; if (authz === undefined) { return '-'; } else { var parts = authz.slice(7).split('.').slice(0,2).map(v=>Buffer.from(v, 'base64url').toString()).map(JSON.parse); return parts[1].sub; } } )()}
`"
}
```

Embedding IIFE code in the configuration is extremely powerful, but is typically long, difficult to read, and challenging to debug. The [`njs` command line utility](http://nginx.org/en/docs/njs/cli.html) can be used to help develop JavaScript expressions.

Future releases will support loading JavaScript modules into a separate storage and later using module-based functions in the configuration.

### Configuration Tools

This release introduces two new command-line tools to simplify Unit's installation and configuration.

#### setup-unit

The `setup-unit` tool automates configuring the software repository
prior to installing Unit. It also verifies a fresh installation by configuring
and serving a "welcome" web page. This takes some of the guesswork out of the
installation process for first-time users and guides them to their next steps.
Installing and running Unit on a typical Linux system is now as simple as this:

```console
$ wget https://unit.nginx.org/_downloads/setup-unit && chmod +x setup-unit
```

```console
# ./setup-unit repo-config
```

```console
# apt install unit || yum install unit
```

```console
# ./setup-unit welcome
```

The `setup-unit` tool has other useful functions you can explore by
running `setup-unit --help`.

#### unitc

The `unitc` tool provides a command-line interface as a wrapper for
`curl(1)` for daily configuration and management of Unit instances.

```console
$ unitc /config
```

```console
$ cat conf.json | unitc /config
```

### Per-Application Cgroups

With Unit 1.29.0, we support the cgroup V2 API to provide the ability to place
each application into its own cgroup or have multiple applications in a single
cgroup. The following configuration illustrates the newly added configuration
syntax:

```json
"applications": {
    "cgroup-demo": {
        "type": "python",
        "path": "/path/to/app/dir",
        "module": "app",
        "isolation": {
            "cgroup": {
                "path": "unit/cgroup-demo"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

---

## Unit Not Impacted By CVE-2022-35256, CVE-2022-40674

This is a brief announcement to notify our users that NGINX Unit is not
impacted by [CVE-2022-40674](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2022-40674#vulnCurrentDescriptionTitle)
and [CVE-2022-35256](https://feed.prelude.org/p/cve-2022-35256); we don't
use `libexpat` and implement our own HTTP stack when integrating with
Node.js.

---

## Unit 1.28.0 Released

We are happy to announce Unit 1.28! This release sets the first milestone for
observability:

- It is now possible to get basic information about connections, requests, and
  other per-application metrics

- All this is now available via our powerful RESTful API

In addition, we introduce new variables and the ability to use them to
customize the access log format. Besides the long-awaited statistics and
logging use cases, we also present:

-  Enhanced forward header handling with new configuration syntax and
   X-Forwarded-Proto support

-  Support for abstract UNIX domain sockets in listeners on Linux-like
   systems

-  Fixes for several community-reported bugs

### Metrics and Statistics

With 1.28, the Unit API has a new endpoint available; the `/status`
endpoint is exposed at the root level, as with the `/config` and
`/certificates` endpoints:

```console
curl --unix-socket /var/run/control.unit.sock http://localhost
```

```json
{
    "config": {
        "listeners": {
        },

        "applications": {
        }
    },

    "status": {
        "connections": {
            "accepted": 0,
            "active": 0,
            "idle": 0,
            "closed": 0
        },

        "requests": {
            "total": 0
        },

        "applications": {}
    }
}
```

The `status` object contains three nested objects:

- The `connections` object provides detailed information about the client
  connections to the Unit instance or, specifically, to its listeners.  Here,
  `accepted` and `closed` are total values accumulated over the
  instance's lifetime; restarting Unit resets the total values.

- In contrast, `active` and `idle` are spot values representing the
  number of active or idle requests at one of the listeners that Unit exposes.

The `requests` object holds the total number of requests to all exposed
listeners since the last restart.

{{< note >}}

Both `connections` and `requests` count requests to Unit's
listeners, NOT the config API itself.

{{< /note >}}

- The `applications` section follows the `/config/applications`
  tree in the API; again, there's no special setup required because Unit
  automatically maintains per-app metrics for all applications in
  `/config/applications`, and the apps' names identify them respectively.

Consider the following applications configuration as an example:

```json
{
    "my-app":{
        "type": "external",
        "working_directory": "/www/chat",
        "executable": "bin/chat_app",
        "processes":{
            "max": 10,
            "spare": 5,
            "idle_timeout": 20
        }
    }
}
```

The interesting part is the `processes` configuration. We defined a
maximum of 10 and a spare number of 5 processes; the `idle_timeout` is 20
seconds. After a couple of requests, let's look at the app statistics:

```json
{
    "my-app":{
        "processes":{
            "running": 9,
            "starting": 0,
            "idle": 2
        },

        "requests":{
            "active": 9
        }
    }
}
```

Knowing the process configuration of `my-app`, this is quite easy to
understand. Currently, there are 9 out of 10 total processes running, while 0
are currently starting. The two idles are inactive app processes that have not
reached the `idle_timeout` yet; these will be removed when the configured
timeout of 20 seconds elapses, so the number of running processes will drop to
7.

So, with Unit 1.28, you now can see your basic workload and process statistics
for the Unit instance itself as well as individual applications. This is but a
first, very important step to increased visibility for us.

### Full Changelog

```none
Changes with Unit 1.28.0                                         13 Sep 2022

    *) Change: increased the applications' startup timeout.

    *) Feature: basic statistics API.

    *) Feature: customizable access log format.

    *) Feature: more HTTP variables support.

    *) Feature: forwarded header to replace client address and protocol.

    *) Feature: ability to get dynamic variables.

    *) Feature: support for abstract Unix sockets.

    *) Bugfix: the Ruby application process could crash on SIGINT.

    *) Bugfix: mutex leak in the C API.
```

### Platform Updates

#### Docker Images

-  The Unit JSC11 image is now based on `eclipse-temurin` instead of
   `openjdk`

-  Go version bump: 1.18 → 1.19

-  Perl version bump: 5.34 → 5.36

---

## Unit 1.27.0 Released

We are pleased to announce NGINX Unit 1.27. This release brings a new level of
maturity to Unit for serving static assets. We love using Unit as a
cloud-native web server, and this release brings some missing features to this
use case.

- Redirecting HTTP requests to HTTPS
- Configurable filename for path-only URIs

### Redirecting HTTP Requests to HTTPS

Since we added TLS support and certificate management to Unit, we’ve been asked
to simplify redirecting plaintext HTTP requests to the TLS-enabled listener.
This is now possible by configuring the `location` value of a route
action to contain variables. Indeed, a new variable, `$request_uri`, is
now available that contains the path-and-query parts of the original URI,
preserving any encoding needed by the browser.

A full example is provided below.

```json
{
    "listeners": {
        "*:443": {
            "tls": {
                "certificate": "example.com"
            },
            "pass": "routes"
        },
        "*:80": {
            "pass": "routes"
        }
    },

    "routes": [
        {
            "match": {
                "scheme": "http"
            },
            "action": {
                "return": 301,
                "location": "https://${host}${request_uri}"
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

This configuration enables Unit to listen on plaintext and TLS-enabled ports,
ensuring that any requests received on the plaintext port notify the browser to
resubmit on the TLS-enabled port. See more details in the documentation.

### Configurable Filename for Path-Only URIs

While it is conventional for `index.html` to represent the resource to be
served when a path-only URI is requested, i.e., one without a filename suffix,
this convention is rooted in history. It comes from a time in the early 1990s
when HTTP was used exclusively to index and navigate HTML pages.

You can now use a different default filename by specifying the index for a
route action. A full example is provided below.

```json
"routes": [
    {
        "match": {
            "uri": "/cms/*"
        },
        "action": {
            "share": "/var/cms$uri",
            "index": "default.html"
        }
    },
    {
        "action": {
            "share": "/var/www$uri"
        }
    }
]
```

This configuration enables Unit to serve `default.html` for path-only
URIs made to `/cms/*` and the default `index.html` filename for all
other path-only URIs. See more details in the documentation.

### Full Changelog

```none
Changes with Unit 1.27.0                                         02 Jun 2022

    *) Feature: ability to specify a custom index file name when serving
       static files.

    *) Feature: variables support in the "location" option of the "return"
       action.

    *) Feature: support empty strings in the "location" option of the
       "return" action.

    *) Feature: added a new variable, $request_uri, that includes both the
       path and the query parts as per RFC 3986, sections 3-4.

    *) Feature: Ruby Rack environment parameter "SCRIPT_NAME" support.

    *) Feature: compatibility with GCC 12.

    *) Bugfix: Ruby Sinatra applications don't work without custom logging.

    *) Bugfix: the controller process could crash when a chain of more than
       four certificates was uploaded.

    *) Bugfix: some Perl applications failed to process the request body,
       notably with Plack.

    *) Bugfix: some Spring Boot applications failed to start, notably with
       Grails.

    *) Bugfix: incorrect Python protocol auto-detection (ASGI or WSGI) for
       native callable object, notably with Falcon.

    *) Bugfix: ECMAScript modules did not work with the recent Node.js
       versions.
```

### Platform Updates

Official packages are now available for the following Linux distributions:

- Fedora 36
- RHEL 9
- Ubuntu 22.04

Docker images have been updated to use the latest
language versions:

- Go 1.18
- PHP 8.1
- Ruby 3.1

### Community, Roadmap, and Open Issues

We continue to receive valuable bug reports and feature requests to our [GitHub
issues page](https://github.com/nginx/unit/issues). Although we are a small
team, every issue is reviewed, and we aim to respond within 2-3 days. Since the
last release, we refreshed our [GitHub README](https://github.com/nginx/unit#readme)
with a super-quick-start guide and added [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/nginx/unit/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
to help you get involved. For other discussions, please join us at the `#unit-users`
channel on the [NGINX Community Slack](https://nginxcommunity.slack.com/join/shared_invite/zt-1aaa22w80-~_~wSMNyPxLPLp5xunOC7w)
or the [mailing list](https://mailman.nginx.org/mailman3/lists/unit.nginx.org/).

Although this release focuses on bug fixes and web server features, we have
advanced in several other projects that you can expect to see in forthcoming
releases this year:

- Custom logging (which brings lots of new variables and places you can use them)
- JavaScript-in-the-configuration (already available as an [experimental patch](https://github.com/nginx/unit/issues/652))
- Statistics API to provide true observability for Unit
- CLI tool for easier command-line management of Unit
